从 2017 年开始做 real world developer。一开始做 wordpress，后来开始做 JS 相关的开发。后端 Express，前端 Vue 跟 React 都用过，React 更熟悉。

Team 里面的角色：
前后端开发，开发与维护两个 Node 项目，同时偶尔处理下 Java 项目的前端。有新人进来就 ramp up 一下。

I hate repetitive works. If some work takes one hour to do manually. I would rather write a script to do it even if it takes the whole day to get it right (if circumstance allows).
I prefer keyboard over trackpad, trackpad over mouse. I like using my code editor (VSCode) with only the keyboard.
I prefer commandline over GUI. For me, GUI is another layer of abstraction, another set of rules I must learn before doing the actual work.
The same applies to programming. I am always skeptical about the next "new and shiny library/tool". I prefer understanding the fundamentals before deciding if I should embrace another set of APIs on top of what has already been offered. Let's face it, every developer wants to be the rule maker instead of the follower (including me of course). So sometimes we unnecessarily abstract things and create learning overheads for other developers.
One advantage of being a developer is I finally can write "I am terrible at MicroSoft Office Suits" on my CV and it won't matter. FYI, I use markdowns for note taking.
What I love about Computer Science is that it differs from other natural sciences that it is the pure product of human decision-makings and collaborations, from using 2 different signals to represent 0 and 1, to every subsequent decisons made.
All the smart and stupid decisions led us where we are now.
I think machine is the least human thing ever, but the makings of it is all about human, the humors, the compromises, etc.
Computer Science is the magic in our world (maybe there is another world where alchemy is their magic, who knows).
